<b>SCENE 2A INTRODUCTION</b>
<v1> Believe it or not, this is video is still being sponsored by HoverAIR. Even though I killed their drone. Let me explain.

<v2> This video was supposed to be sponsored by HoverAir, but unfortunately, they backed out after I crashed their drone. I get it. But I decided to make this video anyway, because even though the rear collision camera doesn't work as well as it should, it's still an overall great little device, and I spent a bunch of time getting to know it, and I think you should know about it, too!


<b>SCENE 3A MODES TESTED</b>
This is the HoverAIR X1 ProMax self-flying camera. It's an 8K flying camera that folds up and fits in your pocket, and doesn't even need a remote control. You can literally power it on, cycle through the modes on the drone itself, and press this button to launch it. You can actually even launch it with voice commands! "hi hover!" That tone means it's ready for a command. When you launch it, it'll take off, and either complete the shot you told it to do, like do a 360 fly around, and then land in your hand, or if it's in a mode like follow, it'll just lock on to you and follow you wherever you go. And it works really well. It even has an indoor follow mode which does a remarkably good job of not running into walls and navigating my studio. I even had it follow me all the way down the stairs of my building! At a walking pace it did perfectly well.
 
I then tried to outrun it going down the stairs, and it did eventually get stuck on the handrail, but overall it did a great job. 

Now I said it can fly without any controllers, but that's just an option. You can use your phone to control it, like you've seen with every other drone, or you can get this thing called a Beacon, which was my favorite way to fly it -- for the limited time I flew it. Instead of having to connect your phone to the XAir's wifi even just to see the image, once paired, you just turn on both of these devices and they connect so you can see the drone's camera on this Beacon. You can also change flying modes, adjust some but not all flight parameters, and two very cool features -- the microphone on here will sync up with the video from here, so you can have your dialog recorded, AND this is called a Beacon because, while the drone does primarily rely on visual subject tracking, if it loses site of you, it can use the beacon to reacquire you. Very neat. 
Sadly I killed this on the first sunny day I had to take it outdoors, but before I committed dronicide, I had tested out most of its automation modes. I ride my bike a lot, so the Cycling Mode was one I was really anxious to try out.
This beacon strapped to my handlebar with this little mount, which meant I could keep an eye on the camera while riding to ensure that the drone was actually still behind me. Which of course you can also hear it, but it's still very helpful to know that it's following you and not the guy who just ran past you. 
Within the phone app, you can change various settings, like choosing the distance it should follow you from, and the altitude it should fly at; high or flat, meaning low. 

Not that going under this bridge was a huge challenge, but it had no problem following me here…

And it did a fine job of avoiding the trees that I was riding under.
It can even automatically climb up if you start going faster, and descend as you slow down, to get the best shots. I found the bike mode to work really well, and while I didn't get to test it, I've seen videos from other creators taking their mountain bike through the trees, and the drone doing a great job of keeping up and not running into anything.

Actually let's talk about the drone's design and some more of its features a little bit. One of the things I really like about this is that the propellers are enclosed. This cage means you won't accidentally cut your finger on the propeller -- something I may or may not have done in the past -- and it's totally safe and easy to take off and land from the palm of your hand. Plus, it folds in half, and again this propeller protection means you can literally just put this in your coat pocket. And this stuff is strong -- so strong in fact that HoverAir includes a piece of it in the box specifically for you to try and destroy! It's tough stuff. 

The camera takes a microSD card, and since it's 8K you do want a good one -- Angelbird just released these new AV PRO microSD V30 cards up to 1TB which are specifically designed for 8K capture. Very cool. Also very cool is that the X1 has 64GB of storage built in! Now that is very nice. 

Now -- while it does shoot in 8K, an important note is that you don't get Log in 8K. The same limitation is on my insta360 8K cameras; you always have to give up log to shoot in 8K, which is really a bummer. Maybe it's a processing power limitation, but it's not unprecedented.

The drone is super light weight -- well under the 250g limit; in fact it officially weighs just 192g… I'm showing xxxg with the SD card and battery and whatever bugs it ate on its final flight. 

It has this OmniTerrain feature that's supposed to help it fly over water and snow and other wacky terrains that could mess with lesser drones. I did have it out over the water a bit, but it kept following me back over land because I had it in the bike follow mode, but the water didn't seem to bother it.

And it's fast! It can burst up to 42km/h; that's over 26 miles per hour. 

Another clever design element brings us back to the beacon. As I said, the beacon is a monitor, and a settings controller, and a microphone, but if you attach these handles, it's even more of a controller. You can start with a single handle, attach the joystick -- you have choices here too, whether you want a fingertip or more thumb controller -- and then operate it in this mode where you can move left right up and down with your thumb, but then move foward and backward by tilting the controller. Then, if you want you can add a second controller to the other side, and then you can flip these guys down to mount your phone into! Overall it's a really clever design.

Anyway let's go back to the sample footage I did capture. 

There's the Zoom Out move, which at first I thought "wow that's exciting, what's the point of this", but then realized the default setting was only 1.5 meters. I changed it to the 30 meter maximum, and sent it away… cool.

The Spiral mode is neat, where it just rises up, keeping you centered, flying around as it goes higher and higher. I took off to see if it'd follow me, but it didn't. This mode just goes from wherever you start it.

360 spin is a simple one that just slowly spins in a 360 degree rotation. 

Dolly Track was definitely my favorite though. I had fully intended to have this flying over the water following me from the side on the bike path, but I killed it before getting to try that. I did however test the mode in this big open space, riding around a bunch while it chased me. I never did get to totally figure out the controls, but it was tracking me both from behind and in front, and I had it flying around me by manually moving the tiny controller on the Beacon.
 

<b>SCENE 4A CRASH SCENE</b>
And then… I decided to go manual. There was a specific shot that I wanted! I wanted to go way up above the bridge, and fly as we walked along it. So this was the first time I tried the single-handed mode, and found that it was, in fact, pretty cool!

I flew it way up, and did a cool spiral shot down, and you know, felt like I had some decent control of it! And this shot is cool, right? Yeah it is! So then, I started getting it in position for the main shot. And… well…

<b>SCENE 5A CONCLUSION</b>
So that's all I can show you. The HoverAir's active collision detection system can't be disabled, so I know it was on. That was a big ol' tree that it hit, but a tree devoid of leaves. And, they do say that rear avoidance only works at lower speeds, which I don't know how slow that means, but regardless, it didn't work here. 

So what does this mean? Look, drone crashes are pretty unavoidable. I think it's true what they say; there are two kind of drone pilots in the world. Those who HAVE crashed, and those who… haven't crashed yet. I'm certainly not massively experienced with drones, which is honestly what drew me to this flying camera in the first place. I love all the automation, and if i'd just left it in auto modes, we probably would have been fine. I still would obviously prefer that their rear collision avoidance worked better, and who knows, maybe once I ship this back them they'll pull telemetry and be able to make improvements.

This is probably a good time to tell you about HoverCARE, their $90/€100 one year or $130/€140 two year CARE plan, that gives you discounted replacements and repairs, so I'd definitely recommend that.

<v1> Anyway, that's about everything I can tell you.
 
Huge kudos to HoverAir for sponsoring this video even though I destroyed their camera before finishing it, and if you want to see more flying samples, um, comment below that they should totally replace this one so I can keep showing it to you? Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time I have something to destroy. 

<v2> Anyway, that's about everything I can tell you. Since HoverAir decided not to sponsor this video after I broke their camera, I guess I won't be showing you any more cool footage from it, but I do think the simple fact that I made this video anyway should tell you how much I really liked the drone… while I had it. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time I have something to destroy. 